Cells are the smallest living units of an organism. All cells have 3 things in common, No matter what type of cells they are. All cells have a cell membrane which separates the inside of the cell from the outside environment. Cytoplasm, which is a fluid (. Fluid ), like gelatin (, pudding, ) and DNA, which is the genetic material of the cell. We generally have two categories of cells. The first category are Eukaryotic cells. They have organelles. That includes the nucleus and other special parts. Eukaryotic cells are the most advanced and complex cells. like those found in plants and animals. The second category are prokaryotic cells. They have no membrane-bound nucleus or organelle., They have genetic material, but it is not enclosed. In the nucleus. Prokaryotic cells are always uniform. or unicellular organisms. ( uni-one cell-cell ) such as bacteria., So what are organelles The word. Organel means ``. Small organ'' Organelles are specialized parts of the cell that have specific jobs to do. Let’s start with the nucleus, the cell’s control center. The nucleus contains DNA or genetic material. Dna dictates ( guides ) the cell. What needs to be done and how it will do it. ( process-work, ) Chromatin is the interconnected and widespread form of DNA found inside the nuclear membrane. When a cell is ready to divide DNA, condenses ( accumulates ) into structures known as chromosomes. The nucleus also contains a nucleolus, which is a structure in which ribosomes are formed. Once the ribosomes are removed from the nucleus, they will have as their main job -synthesis- or protein creation. Outside the nucleus ribosomes and the rest of the organelles swim around in cytoplasm, which is gelatinous, substance. Ribosomes can move freely within the cytoplasm or cling to the endoplasmic. Reticulum ( mesh ) abbreviated as ER. There are two types of ERs Rough ER, (, granular ), which has ribosomes attached to it, and smooth ( agranular ) ER that has no self-adhesive ribosomes. Endoplasmic reticulum is a membrane-enclosed path. ( road ) that transports materials such as ribosome-synthesized, proteins., Proteins and other materials emerge from the endoplasmic reticulum in small bladders, ( air or fluid ). Hence the Golgi apparatus, which is often referred to as the Golgi body, accepts them. During protein excretion through the golgi apparatus. They are modified in forms, ( types ), which the cell can use. The body of the globe. Does this by splitting the proteins into usable forms. or by adding other materials to them. such as lipids or carbohydrates.? Vacuoles are bags-shaped structures that store various materials. Here in this plant cell, the central vacuole stores water. If we go back to animal cells, you will see an organelle called a lysosome. Lysosomes are waste collectors. which insert used or damaged parts of the cell. They are filled with enzymes, which process ( break down ). These fungal wastes. Mitochondria are an organelle that serves as an energy source for both types plant and animal cells Throughout a process known as Cellular, Breathing, mitochondria form ATP molecules which supply energy to all cellular processes. Cells that need more energy have more mitochondria. Meanwhile, the cell retains its shape with the help of a cytoskeleton ( cell skeleton ). The skeleton contains microfilaments in the form of fibers, which are made up of proteins and microtubules that are thin hollow tubes. Some organisms, such as photoautotrophic plants, which means they receive sunlight for energy, have cells that contain an organelle called a coloroplast. Chloroplast is where photosynthesis occurs. It is green because it contains a green pigment called Chlorophyll. Plant cells also have a cell wall outside the cell membrane, which gives shape, supports and protects the plant cell. Animal cells never have a cell wall. There are different types of structures that only a few cells have Here are just a few of them. In humans, for example, the respiratory tract is lined with cells that contain cilia. These are microscopic designs in the form of hair which move in the form of waves. This ability enables the capture of airborne worms and throws them out through coughing. Another unique feature of some cells is the flagellum. Some bacteria have flares. The flagellum is like a small tail that allows the cell to move or push itself forward. The only human cell that has a flagellum is the sperm cell As a generalization. Remember that Eukaryotic cells are plant and animal cells that have a membrane-bound nucleus and organelle., While prokaryotic cells are single-celled organisms that do not have these. All cells have a cell membrane, cytoplasm and genetic material., Although only plant cells have chloroplasts, both cells, ( plant and animal ) have mitochondria 