Germs are everywhere In your phone In your water bottle In your hands before you wash them In your hands after you washed them off, And they literally cover every place of your body. Too. Microbes are everywhere, and there is nothing we can do about it. So we made a deal millions of years ago. The point is to give them shelter and food In return. They work for us., But the more we know about this partnership, the more it looks like a cold war Within the wombs of our mothers. Humans are initially sterile When we are born and pass through the birth canal. Billions of bacteria from our mothers completely cover our bodies. This is an important part of human health. Children born by cesarean section, have a higher rate of asthma, Immune diseases and even leukemia. So our bodies do not just accept the invasion of microorganisms. She even welcomes her. Over millions of years we develop together to make the best of our relationship. Breast milk, for example, It contains special sugar to nourish and help Some groups of microbes That works as your company for the other, And it helps to modify the immune system. It takes two years for a healthy community to form microbes, Every human being has his own microbiome, made up of bacteria Viruses, fungi and other creatures. We have three types of guests on and on in our bodies. The first Silent travelers do their jobs and they are politely ignored. By staying there, they take space and keep violent intruders away., The second, The guests that are harming us, But we learned to live with them, For example, bacteria that literally create acid that melts our teeth. If we do not use the miswak enough., They want to take as much space as they can And we don't want them to do that. However, we cannot get rid of it. Completely., the third, The friendly fellows, which our bodies want you to be around Most of them, have a community of 380,000 billion bacteria Up to 5,000 different species may live in our gut. These small intestine organisms help us digest food And pulling additional calories is one that we cannot digest ourselves. Unfortunately, our intestine is also an ideal point of attack for intruders That which is guarded by the aggressive army, Our immune system., To survive. Here we have a microbiome with us co-evolved To be able to communicate with our body. The most important part of this is to ask the immune system not to kill them. However, they also have a real motivation to keep our gut healthy, Even some of them produce messenger materials That helps educate the immune system. Others stimulate intestinal cells to regenerate faster. However, over the past few years., Evidence has emerged that the effect of our gut microbiome It goes much further. It may even occur directly to the brain. I noticed some strange things: 90 % of Serotonin is our body, An important messenger substance for neurons. It is produced in the gut. Some scientists believe that the microbiome does this To communicate with the vagus nerve. The information superhighway of our nervous system. Other examples are bacteria that stimulate immune cells in the intestine, So they send a kind of warning signal to the brain. Here it also activates immune cells that help the brain recover from infections., Since the brain decides what we eat. The microbiome is interested in a healthy brain., A new field of science opened here And we're just about to understand how these can be The complex systems within our bodies interact., But we're starting to see how much our microbiome has. It really affects us and our behavior. Take depression for example., Healthy rat microbes, feed from the courage of depression. I started showing anxiety, behavior like And symptoms that look like depression. And in early 2017, a microbiome study of intelligence linked By attaching a specific group of bacteria. In newborns With the best motor and language skills., But it may also affect our daily life. Experiments with fruit flies. It showed that microbiome affected what types of food it craved. This may mean your microbes are able to say to your mind, Food that must be obtained. Although this is not a one-way street, Our microbiome seeds come from our mother, But how it changes and changes is determined by what we eat. The organisms feed our secret on various things. Some like fiber and leafy greens, Others go to sugars and starches. Some love greasy potatoes and butter. We have a bowel like a garden in which we decided constantly What will grow and bloom. If we eat healthy food, we strain the bacteria that healthy food is like. If we eat a lot of fast food, then we strain the fast-loving food. Bacteria. Life is hard, so we can get trapped in a vicious circle. You have a stressful time, eat lots of burgers french fries and pizza. This is great for bacteria for fast food. They multiply, multiply and take up an area of ​​loving plant bacteria. Worse, yet it sends signals to the brain to continue what it does. This makes you want more fast food than that., Which generates more rapidly food bacteria That makes you crave fast, food, etc. and so on., This kind of self-reinforcement cycle It can play a huge role in obesity. However, it is important to stress that this process cannot be fought And the opposite by eating healthy food and breeding more good bacteria. Beyond overweight. Our microbiome has also been linked to the other Serious diseases like autism, Schizophrenia and cancer. One of the first symptoms of Parkinson's disease is actually gut problems. If your body is overtaken with bacteria that harm you, Often, there is only one solution. You bring in an army of good guys., its very easy. You just planted some healthy tube. You can do this by literally transferring a tube from a healthy person In your gut. This method is already used to treat diarrhea. This is what happens when C. bacteria are difficult gut, microbiome control., But we don't know enough about the complicated interaction at work here. Yet., For example, transplantation from overweight cured donor donor diarrhea, But obesity contributed to her down the line. This caused some methods and another one tried to study to reverse the effect., Laying a tube of slim people to that obese. It gave them a more varied microbiome And make it less sensitive to insulin. All of the things that also happen when people lose weight. We need to do a lot of scientific research to really understand this. How microbes make us more healthy or sick., However, whether we like it or not.? We need our microbes and we need us too. We will never have our bodies for ourselves., But we included a strong ally If we can keep peace. 