Stated Clearly Advance What is DNA? What is the way it works? Dna is also known as deoxyribonucleic acid. It is a molecule. It is a group of atoms attached to each other In the case of genetic material. These atoms are combined into a form, A long spiral. Staircase Kind of like the one in the picture, If you have studied biology or watch the movie `` The Guards'', you have probably heard DNA functions as the blueprint or recipe for the organism, but how? How just a part can work as a blueprint for something useful? Wonderful, like a tree Dog or dinosaur howling To answer the question: Let's take a quick look at amino acids. Amino acids are tiny chemicals in our bodies that are very important. It is often referred to as the basic building blocks of life. There are about twenty different species, each with its own unique shape. The great thing about amino acids is that they can be kind of bound together, Lego, (, a cubes game ) and the production of an endless array of larger particles. These particles are called proteins Amino acids, make proteins Proteins with other chemicals, combine to form the living cell. The cell forms the tissue, The tissues form, the organs And the members When combined together, they work. Of course, You combine to form the organism as you, and I These proteins that make up our bodies, keep in mind that there are millions Different types of proteins. Each must be perfectly crafted to work Wrongly manufactured. It usually does not work. Here comes the role of DNA. Dna does a lot of exciting things. Some of them are still not fully understood, But one of the most important and most understandable functions is telling acid Amino How to line up and shape themselves in ideal shapes For protein. Theoretically, If the right protein is built at the right time and place Everything from cell to organ to whole organism, He will be. Fine. Here is a simplified sample of DNA. It shows us that the steps of peace It consists of four different types of chemicals shown in different colors And characters. If you look at one half of the molecule, You can read this chemical sequence or the genetic code somewhat from top to bottom, Like the book. One strand of DNA very long, Millions of characters - DNA spends most of the time wrapped, like pasta inside the nucleus. The amino acids are found outside the nucleus in the so-called cytoplasm To help DNA interact with the cytoplasm and convert those amino acids Into proteins. Special chemicals inside the nucleus copy a portion of the DNA code. These partial copies are called RNA. Dna is very similar to DNA, but it is shorter and shorter. Of course, The other side, Their small size and shape, allow the RNA to pass through small pores on the surface of the nucleus To the cytoplasm to the mouth of another particle called a ribosome Ribosomes are protein building machines. It reads the code in an RNA molecule. Three letters: at a time It absorbs amino acids from their surroundings and affixes them together in Series. According to the genetic code As the chain grows bent, it twists and sticks to itself To form an ideal protein. All three letters of the RNA code, The ribosome directs. Any of the twenty different amino acids - a must Next added, For example, CAA - makes ribosomes Catches glutamine amino acid. As for the AGU, it tells the ribosome to catch the two thieves And so on. Once the protein is made, it does many different things From them. It helps to create a new cell New cell, So for the answer to the original question. What is DNA DNA is a molecular diagram of an organism How it works. Dna makes RNA RNA, synthesizes, protein And proteins go to make life. This whole process, Although it is complex and sophisticated As charming as it may seem Totally based on chemistry, Can be studied And understanding it Translation of Aasem allamki. Clearly, thanks for watching Share with friends on Facebook or Twitter Or anywhere Subscribe to us, If you have any questions or comments, you can reply to those comments at Department. Learn more about DNA at StatedClearly.com, www.StatedClearly.com Til! Next time Stay curious, 